RestTemplate is also quite straightforward.
When you configure your RestTemplate, you can add a ClientHttpRequestInterceptor.
What this does is it intercepts all the requests before being
sent out by the RestTemplate and gives you the chance to modify
them before and after they're sent out.
If we implement this interceptor, we get access to the request,
body, and execution objects.
Hence, we can get the access token from the authentication object,
which is of type JwtAuthenticationToken and add it to the request header,
then call the execute method,
which will result in every request being sent out by this instance of the
RestTemplate having the access token in the header.
We just have to plug this interceptor into the RestTemplate.
There is nothing more to do.
However,
there is no check to see if the token is about to expire and to refresh it.
So bear that in mind.
You might need to put that logic in there.
We will discuss another version of the RestTemplate,
the OAuth2 RestTemplate in the Client Credentials via RestTemplate section coming up, which can handle this for you.